# TicTacToe game using Arduino Uno
winter2020 project for CS207

# Introduction
  This project is a game of tic tac toe using the arduino uno breadboard with pushbuttons. This game is played on the serial monitor with the arduino being the controller. This is a two player game between two human players who want to play a game of tic tac toe. This game is based on the idea of another project that is a minesweeper game using a handmade controller(Astels). This project is quite different however as it is a completely different game and it uses the arduino as a controller. The reason the project specifications and modification are so much different than the original project is to have a complete and comprehensive design and implementation from scratch. The idea or overarching logic behind the project was the motivation to be able to play a game using input, output and processing that was completely hand designed and very limited to relying on others or anything that was already out there. To maintain the integrity of it being completely and utterly self made process of design and implementation. The experience that is felt when playing this game and using this marvelous project is one of which is admiring what a basic understanding of computer sciences can give you. This project is meant to be taken as something of a beginner level challenge that anyone can do and implement and feel as if this was their very own creation. The most important thing to get out of this simple game is to ask yourself how fun it is to be able to make such a simple game and be able to play it on something so primitive. It is very much hoped that this experience of playing this game was as much fun as it was to create it. 

# Setup
(in circuit folder)

# launch
 The way the project works is that you have four inputs from the arduino uno to the serial monitor. There is a display on the serial monitor of a tic tac toe board. The board describes in a very subtle way on how to play the game. The board has numbers from one to nine indicating the number of squares on the board. The player1 gets to start player1 being the X. player1 presses button one and that allows the player to pick one of the nine squares to input an X. Then when the player has decided they want to pick the square they like. They can now press button two which will allow them to select that square. This button will also display a new board with the players input. Another thing this button will do is change control to player2 so the other person can play now. The same mechanism is used for player2 except the second player gets to choose O instead of X. the player2 presses button3 to select the square they like and button4 does the same thing for player2 that it does for player1 except output an O instead of an X. the game is played entirely on the arduino board and watched on the serial monitor. The entire transcript of the game is on the serial board once it has been finished and played for future reference so that the players can get better at tic tac toe. 
# credits
Inspirations for the project and materials taken from:

1. Astels, Dave. “CircuitPython Minesweeper Game.” Adafruit Learning System, learn.adafruit.com/circuitpython-pyportal-minesweeper-game.
2. Abdelaziz, Salahedin, et al. “Arduino Tic Tac Toe.” educ8s.Tv - Watch Learn Build, 19 Apr. 2018, educ8s.tv/arduino-tic-tac-toe/.
3. Zamel, Leon. “Building a Tic-Tac-Toe Game with an Arduino.” 21 July 2017, www.leonzamel.com/2017/07/21/TicTacToe-Arduino.html.
